Gitpod dev section (#1089)
nf-core/nf-co.re: markdown/developers/testing_with_gitpod.md

Gitpod is free (with a GitHub/GitLab/Bitbucket account) for use up to 50hours/month and allows 4 parellel workspaces (as of March 2022). It is based in your browser (reconmmended with Chrome, Firefox or Edge). You can find their extensive documentation [here](https://gitpod.io/). 

All nf-core repos (including the webpage) should have their own working gitpod instances, with all the code required available in each environment.

## Running Gitpod on an nf-core repo

First install the browser extension, follow the instructions [here](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/browser-extension). This adds the green Gitpod button to each Git repository for easy access to the environment. This button simply appends `https://gitpod.io/#` onto the git repo URL (e.g. https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/nf-core/rnaseq).

Once you click on the green button, you will asked to sign in with either Github, GitLab or Bitbucket. Once you have signed in, you should see the following:

> ![PNG](/assets/markdown_assets/developers/gitpod/nf-core-gitpod.png)

Author: I tried to copy the other Markdown pages. Finding gitpod now displaying the images correct,, will try to find out whats going on

> ![PNG](/assets/markdown_assets/developers/gitpod/nf-core-gitpod.png)

Author: OK, worked it out. You cannot use relative paths for the markdown preview. So need to change :
`![PNG](./public_html/assets/markdown_assets/developers/gitpod/nf-core-gitpod.png)`
to 
`![PNG](/public_html/assets/markdown_assets/developers/gitpod/nf-core-gitpod.png)`

Not sure if this will break the links though when rendering ?

> ![PNG](/assets/markdown_assets/developers/gitpod/nf-core-gitpod.png)

Reviewer: @ewels or @mashehu . What's the procedure for images like this?

> 1. **The terminal** allows you to run all the programs in the repository, for example `nextflow`, `nf-core` tools and docker are installed in the nf-core rnaseq repository.

Author: True, I can add that "a terminal can be opened manually too", with images. 
I guess, for all nf-core repos, we will probably have a terminal automatically appearing in each repo env.

---
title: Testing with Gitpod
subtitle: Testing, Code review and Website dev.
---

# Introduction

> Gitpod is an open-source developer platform that can be spun up quickly from a Git repository, containing all the programs needed to run your pipelines. It has many purposes, including: testing pipelines, learning Nextflow, reviewing/editing code and live views of edited markdown/HTML for webpage development. In addition, within Gitpod, any change can be pushed to branches for review. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Gitpod is an open-source developer platform that can be spin up a little virtual machine quickly from a Git repository, containing all the programs needed to run your pipelines. It has many purposes, including: testing pipelines, learning Nextflow, reviewing/editing code and live views of edited markdown/HTML for webpage development. In addition, within Gitpod, any change can be pushed to branches for review. 
```

Or server.. whatever you want to call it. It would be good to specify it has a bit of computing power behind it to be clear you can actually do proper testing (i.e., to differencite with the github magic `.` VScode thing)

Author: I will add the limits in my review later.

> Gitpod is free (with a GitHub/GitLab/Bitbucket account) for use up to 50hours/month and allows 4 parellel workspaces (as of March 2022). It runs in your browser (recommended with Chrome, Firefox or Edge). You can find their extensive documentation [here](https://gitpod.io/). 

Reviewer 2: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17950287/159339982-a9ad1d42-d2d5-41dd-9b73-55d1bf47f31c.png)

Yup!

> Each nf-core repository (including the webpage) is integrated with Gitpod. When you click on the Gitpod button (see below), this clones a copy of the repository into your Gitpod instance with all the software necessary to run tests and display files. A terminal is also available to run test and workflow debugging.

Reviewer: It seems this is not quite true yet, so we should add what to look for and how to deal with it if it's not there.
```suggestion
Each nf-core repository (including the nf-core webpage) should have a ready-to-go Gitpod environment waiting to be started. Since this is a new nf-core feature, check for the `.gitpod.yml` file in the root of the repository. If it's there, you're ready to start using Gitpod. If the file is absent, then make a fork of the repository, start a new branch, and then in your new branch copy the `.gitpod.yml` file from the [nf-core tools repository](https://github.com/nf-core/tools/blob/master/nf_core/pipeline-template/.gitpod.yml). Then start Gitpod from this branch.

By clicking on the Gitpod button (see below), your repository is cloned into your Gitpod instance with all the software necessary to run tests and display files. A terminal is also available to run test and workflow debugging.
```

![PNG](/public_html/assets/markdown_assets/developers/gitpod/gitpodbutton.png)

> Once you click on the green button, you will asked to sign in with either Github.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once you click on the green button, you will asked to sign in with Github.
```
